# Spatial prediction of mineral nitrogen

Soil conditions are one of the factors determining the process of vegetation, the selection of crop plants and the quantity of potential yields. The possibility of parameterization and mapping of soils spatial variability in the field scale is an innovative approach in crop production management, enabling the identification of areas similar in terms of selected soil characteristics, e.g. nutrient content. This paper proposes a methodology for spatial prediction of mineral nitrogen content in soils using various sources of spatial data and a modern approach based on machine learning algorithm. The random forest model was trained on data from two different arable fields and results were compared on an independent test set with a geostatistical and inverse distance weighted model, which set optimal hyperparameters values during cross-validation. For the wheat field, random forest has reached the coefficient of determination (R^2) equal to 0.54 and mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) equal to 19.04%, geostatistical model has reached R^2 equal to 0.71 and MAPE equal to 14.42%, IDW model has reached R^2 equal to 0.59 and MAPE equal to 17.51% of mineral nitrogen content. For the rape field, random forest has reached R^2 equal to 0.3 and MAPE equal to 38.6%, geostatistical model has reached R^2 equal to 0.35 and MAPE equal to 32.86%, IDW model has reached R^2 equal to 0.02 and MAPE equal to 42.94% of mineral nitrogen content. The random forest algorithm, despite the use of a low number of measurements and unprocessed data, gives almost as good results as a well-tuned geostatistical model. The disadvantage is a slightly longer calculation time compared to other approaches, however, it does not require any work from the analyst like kriging.
